"Tell me about yourself."
I'm a senior software engineer with 9 years of experience building web applications,
mostly focused on backend in tb.lx a software company within daimlertruck,
where i focus on a real time data processing pipeline and a java backend to serve an UI. And recently started working on a genAI application as well.
Before this, i worked on an event based microservice backend specially built for the logistic needs of very large companies.



"Why are you interested in XYZ?"


"What excites you about this role?"

"What do you know about our company and product?"


Culture & Values Fit

Examples:
Making performance improvements to improve user experience and loading times, like the fuel consumption aggregation
Receiving feedback from signal visualization
Changing the timer in Themis, making the ADR, convincing the stakeholder/code owner, implementing and monitoring 



"Tell me about a time you received constructive feedback. How did you respond?"
A year ago, my manager asked me to have a more constant output across inititatives, since it would be better for the team and project that all have 
some input from me. Since them, i keep notes on all ongoing inititatives in the team and improved my work environment.


"How do you continue learning and improving in your role?"
I read a few technical books each year and read engineering blogs like uber and Meta
I learn new languages every few years because they give you a different view point on the one you use the most.



Work Experience & Resume Clarification

"Can you walk me through your most recent role and key responsibilities?"

My key responsibilities are development, code reviews, proposing architectural and code design changes, and participating in writing technical specifications
effort estimation and operations


"Why are you looking to leave your current role?"
I'm not happy with the direction of the company and the reduction of my team's size

"What kind of projects have you worked on that relate to this position?"



Behavioral & Soft Skills Questions

"Describe a challenging team project you worked on. What was your role?"


"How do you prioritize multiple projects?"

"Have you worked in cross-functional teams? How did you navigate that?"


Qual a equipa que estao a contratar?
Qual sao as resposabilidades?
Como definem as funcionaliades em que trabalham?
Como e a relacao com os outros escritorios
