Forward looking and restless
Creative and action oriented
Customer led & symplifying
Collaborative and inclusive

"Tell us about a time you helped a teammate succeed."
→ They want to see if you're supportive and collaborative, not just an individual contributor.

	I have a teammate who works on a RAG and he wanted a second opinion on how the system should be designed to persist the data.
	We went though the architecture and the ways the system could receive these files. He them discussed it with the project lead and is implementing this system.


"How do you handle disagreements or conflicts in a team?"
→ They're assessing emotional intelligence and your ability to maintain a healthy team culture.

	I would talk with them to understand their viewpoint.
	For example, there is a disagreement in how a a featre should be developed. I would call this person hear their approach and explain mine in comparison.
	We would then compromise on a solution, if their's is better i would compromise.
	If the disagreement can't be solved, then a more senior person would be involved and ask them their opinion.


"How do you give and receive feedback?"
→ Psychological safety and growth culture are key to Sky Portugal.
	
	Give both positive and constructive feedback with examples of situations where it happened. I don't like giving telling someone how they should have procceeded as it is their choice to act on the feedback or not.
	To receive feedback, i say thank you and i'll think about what i should do. 



"What does diversity in the workplace mean to you?"
→ Be genuine, and relate it to your experience working in international/mixed teams.


"Have you ever worked with someone from a very different background? What did you learn?"
→ Sky values open-mindedness and the ability to collaborate cross-culturally (English is their working language).

"Tell me about something new you learned recently and how you applied it."
→ Sky encourages continuous improvement and self-driven growth.

	Something that stuck with me recently is the concept of broken windows from pragmatic programmer. And i've clearly seen the effect of not caring.


"Describe a time you challenged the status quo."
→ They're looking for people who push boundaries, experiment, and improve processes or products.

	When i got to the project, there was monitoring dashboard, so we created one and then used it to improve the performance of the application.
	The objective was to use pareto's law and improve 20% of the endpoints, and there were some that were very slow because they made n calls to other endpoints.
	I proposed to move those calls to the FE since they were behind a hover and weren't needed in the first place.

	On another, i created a daily aggregation for fuel consumption since the data on FE was daily, i had to push this change because the user experience would change due to timezones. Afterwards, a teammate picked up the electricity consumption.
	We didn't migrate the data because of the effort but the client was so happy that they asked us to migrate the whole year.
	
	When we started my teammates wouldn't read the tickets before the refinement, so it would become a reading session instead of a discussion.
	I mentioned it on a retro, and they started to do so which improved our meeting. They saw the benefit it brought and we continued to do so.


"How do you ensure quality in your work?"
→ Expect this if you're in engineering/product; excellence is a key cultural pillar.

	Read the ticket and documentation. Overall, it is very important that you understand the intent of the feature and what the product is trying to achieve.
	This allows you to make suggestions to better the product. For example, i'm implementing an emergency voice message and i proposed to use the webhooks to know if the voice message was delivered instead of firing and forgetting, since it is such an important message to the client.
	Take time to implement and experiment with different designs if needed and ask PR to developers who don't rubber stamp. 



"Describe a situation where you took initiative without being asked."
→ They want proactive problem-solvers, not just task followers.

	Creating the tech debt tickets, creating the datadog dashboard, improving the performance
	On my current development, i asked if it they wanted to use the callbacks so we could know if the message was delivered.

"How do you manage work-life balance in high-pressure situations?"
→ Sky values well-being and flexibility, so they want people who know their limits and support healthy boundaries.
